Welcome back.
We finally created some data that our boss can finally use.
The difference between wage and value of a soccer player.
But this is kind of hard to read.
Wouldn't it be nice if we can visualize this data and that is a big thing that a data scientist does.
It analyzes the data understands the data cleans the data but at the end of the day if you want to present
this to anybody you need it in a format that is easily understandable for somebody that might not be
a data science expert.
So let's visualize this.
Now we talked about map plot lib which is what is often used to visualize this data.
Now this library is very extensive and you can read the documentation on your own but a ton of other
libraries have been built on top of it to simplify and make it easier for us to visualize data.
One of these libraries is called Seabourn and is really really easy to use.
Let me show you so we have this data.
If we go to a new cell block and just a reminder here the way Jupiter notebooks works is that it has
to run all these inputs.
If you refresh Jupiter notebooks and you have a notebook and just click on run for one cell it won't
have the previous cells in memory.
So you have to make sure that all these cells are run in order for you to execute this part because
if you just restarted Jupiter notebooks it won't have any of this in memory but Anyway just wanted to
make that note in case you have an error let's use Seabourn to visualize the data we have above.
So again seaborne you can just read the documentation and there's tons of tutorials online they can
follow but I'll just show you the easy way of doing it.
So we're going to import Seabourn.
We're going to setup sea borne by just running set and now we can just create a variable graph and call
S and S or sorry I should do borne as I said s just so we don't have to write Seabourn every time.
So as an S dot set and then we're going to say graph equals S.A. and we're going to use the scatter
plot as the graphing method that we want to use.
And on the x axis we're going to use the wage and on the y axis.
We're going to use the value and the data we're going to use for the graph is going to be data frame
1 which is what we have up here.
So if I run this all right we should have the graph now.
So let's actually print it out.
If I click Run look at that.
How easy was that seaborne was imported for me and all I had to do is say what graph I wanted.
What were the values.
So that is the x axis and the y axis.
And what data we want to use and all of a sudden I have a graph.
How cool is that.
Just like that.
Using some really nice Python libraries I now have a notebook that shows my progress of exploring this
data but we have one problem here.
You see I have all these scattered dots but I don't really know what they mean.
Wouldn't it be cool if there's a way for us to hover and actually see which player represents the dot.
Well we can do that with a another library and this one is called bouquet bouquet.
It's a hard one to say book bouquet whatever you want to call it is another library that allows us to
actually have interactive visualizations.
So again if I go back I can use it in a similar fashion that I did with Seabourn I simply say from bouquet
poke it's going to be really hard to say and I'm going to say dot plotting.
So form the plotting library.
I'm going to import the figure and show functions and then also from the bouquet dot models I'm going
to import the hover tool which is going to allow us to hover over these things again.
You don't have to memorize these if you go to the documentation and look at the quick start.
You'll actually see this or you can even google for it.
So if we actually go to the quick start guide you see that we have the two libraries that we import
plotting and models and it shows you how to get started quickly as a matter of fact that we can just
copy and paste this line which allows us to plot title and x axis.
So let's do that and I'm going to give the title as soccer 20 19 the x axis label will be wage and the
y axis label will be value and in here I can give it different parameters that perhaps I want for example
I can say plot width for how many pixels I want my plot with to be and same with plot height we'll say
we want that to be also seven hundred pixels.
And then finally I can say what type of tools I want to use in our case we're going to create a hover
tool so that we can hover over this
so this will be our graph right now next if I do p dot show or actually the way I would work is we do
the show that we import from here and we run it like this.
And you know what for now let's not use any of the hover tools if I click run here but looks like I
have bit of a mistake here.
I delete this show by mistake.
Let's click Run and look at that.
It actually opens up a new HCM all file for me so that this could be interactive.
But right now it's empty.
We actually have to draw the circles of our plot but we have wage and value and the title soccer 2019
if we go to the quick start we see that we can do lines
and we can do circles as well with a different type of options and because we're doing a scatter plot
let's do exactly that.
I'll go back and in here say that I want the circles that we're going to create and again don't get
too confused if this is new to you.
Again this is all just a library and the documentation that you have to read if you want to get familiar
with it so we'll have the circles wage and value so that is the x axis and the y axis values of the
circles and then we'll say size we can give it a size of let's say 10 for now and the source of the
data will be from D F 1.
So that's why we want the circles to contain.
If I now run this well I may have spell something wrong.
This should be size.
If I click Run
look at that I have my data points which is great.
Which is what we have before we have a new HMO file that's generated.
But I want to be able to hover so if I go to let's close this for now if I go to the quick start guide
and let's just search for hover we see that do we have the hover tool
and we have all these options that we can use for a hovering again.
Do I like this one but I will show you the basic syntax essentially while we want to do is we use the
hover to equal the hover tool that we're importing.
And in here we can say that the tool tips is going to equal a list that contains some couples.
So it looks like we can use the tool tip like this.
So let me just copy this so we have the tool tips.
We have the index and then the x and y axis in our case it's wage and value and we'll change this to
wage and value and we don't care about the ordering but we actually want to add another field which
is the name of the player from the data.
So as you can see in the hover tool tips section were four basic tool tips I'll show you exactly what
each value represents and how you can represent it.
And you have the dollar signs and the ad signs.
So in our case we want to individually have the wage and the value displayed here.
So we're gonna use the ad sign unlike the x and y dollar sign which just simply gives us the x and y
value.
So I'm just gonna change this to the ad side and then finally also have the name property as well.
Now the final thing we need to do is to just give this tool tips as the tools inside of this figure
parameter.
If I now run this well it looks like another area.
Let's see.
So it should be a hover tool here
and give it the array that we want.
So that if I run
a look at that we have an interactive plot that we can actually analyze.
So we see here that Neymar is well has a pretty low wage compared to his value.
What about messy here.
Well messy is definitely getting paid a lot compared to his value.
So you might find some good deals for trades maybe with mopping very very cool.
Now this is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to visualization libraries like this.
There's a lot of trial and error and learning how the library works how to visualize this properly and
up until now all we've done is this part right.
We've imported the data and then clean the data and maybe have done some visualizations with it.
We haven't really done any of these parts yet up until now while we've been doing is mostly data science
trying to grab data and understand it for business purposes.
I wanted to explore this dataset a little bit more maybe try out some of these data visualization libraries
but for now I think we have enough to move on and get into some more machine learning concepts.
I'll see you in the next one by.